Create Stata Code Review checklist.md (#57)
worldbank/dime-standards: dime-coding-standards/checklists/Stata Code Review Checklist.md

# Stata Peer Code Review Checklist

Use this checklist to improve your own Stata coding practice or to guide your peer code reviews.

## Main Do-file Setup
    
- [ ] Includes `clear all` and `set more off` at the start.
- [ ] Sets core configurations (`version`, `matsize`, `varabbrev`) directly or via a wrapper (e.g., `ieboilstart`)
- [ ] Script runs from start to end after changing directory paths in one place only.
- [ ] Uses only **relative paths** (no `C:/...`) 
- [ ] Uses forward slashes in file path for OS compatibility
- [ ] Installs required packages or includes an `ado` folder with dependencies.
- [ ] Sets a **random seed** for reproducibility.

> - [ ] Uses `run` or `do` to call modular scripts for cleaning, construction, etc.

Reviewer: What would the alternative be? Does this relate to not manually running several scripts in order? If it is this, I think this is more to the point:

> The main-do file runs all code files (using `run` or `do` to files) without any need to manually run files in a certain order.

    
## Data Management
    

> - [ ] Dataset includes a **unique ID** and is sorted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Each dataset includes a **unique ID** and is sorted. If the same unit of observation is used in multiple datasets, then the same unique ID should be used for the same observation across those datasets.
```

This might be too long for this brief checklist. Maybe split into to check items. But this point is important to make.

    
## Code Readability & Style
    
- [ ] Uses proper indentation inside loops or programs.
- [ ] Uses white space and line breaks `///` for long lines.
- [ ] Uses descriptive index names in loops/globals.
- [ ] Uses `${}` syntax for global macros.
- [ ] Comments clearly explain steps and analysis decisions.
- [ ] Each section is clearly marked (e.g., `*** SECTION: Construct Outcomes`).
- [ ] Avoids hardcoding values (uses macros).
- [ ] Avoids copy-pasting blocks; uses loops or programs where repetitive code appears.

    
## Variable Construction

- [ ] Each variable’s logic aligns with codebook or documentation.
- [ ] Transformations (log, winsorize, etc.) are justified and explained.
- [ ] Categorical variables are properly labeled and encoded.
- [ ] Data transformations are verified with `assert` or summary checks.

    
## Collapse / Group-wise Calculations
    
- [ ] Data is sorted uniquely before using `by: egen` or `by: gen`
- [ ] Aggregations like `sum`, `mean` are documented and correct.
- [ ] Missing values handled appropriately during `collapse`and `egen`.

    
## Output & Logging
    

> - [ ] Output tables or graphs are generated using commands like `esttab`, `putexcel`, `asdoc`.

Reviewer: If one code their own version of these commands. Like what we have done in `iebaltab` then that should also be fine, right? The core point here is that one should not manually copy the results to files, right? 

```suggestion
- [ ] Outputs should not be copied manually to external files. Instead export tables or graphs using commands like `esttab`, `putexcel`, `asdoc` among many other.
```

- [ ] Output files are clearly named and saved in dedicated folders.
- [ ] Log files are started with `log using` and closed with `log close`.

> - [ ] Outputs are saved in plain text formats (e.g., `.csv, .txt, .tex`) to ensure compatibility with Git and facilitate version control.

Reviewer: This goes against our recommendation listing `putexcel` above. I see what you mean, but someone new to this list could be confused.

And this should only be for Table outputs. We use outputs earlier to describe both table and graphs, but this is just for tables.

## Reproducibility & Documentation
    
- [ ] Code runs from a clean slate, reproducibly.
- [ ] README documents required Stata version and packages.
- [ ] `ieboilstart` or equivalent ensures version stability.
- [ ] Folder and file structure is documented.

> - [ ] README mentions the code line to be updated to run the code.

Reviewer: readme should also list main-do file
